Update readme (#12)
exercism/v3-docker-compose: README.md

# Exercism v3 Local Environment

Hello 👋

> This repository will provide you with a local setup of Exercise that you can use to develop any part of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository will provide you with a local setup of Exercism that you can use to develop any part of the project.
```

> It is built using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), which you need to install, but it does not require any real Docker knowledge to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is built using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), which you need to install, but it does not require any Docker knowledge to use.
```

Our aim is to get you to a working setup within 10-minutes from now (presuming you have a decent internet connection).
It's also possible to get each piece of Exercism working on your local machine without this repository, but that will take lots more effort and work.

## Basic setup

The following instructions take you through getting the most basic setup working.

> We'll explain what actually happens below the hood, and how to configure things afterwards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'll explain what actually happens below the hood, and how to configure things afterwards.
```

### Getting set up

To start, run the following instructions line-by-line:

```bash
# Make a directory to host all of Exercism within
mkdir exercism

# Move into the new directory
cd exercism

# Clone this repository onto your computer

> git clone git@github.com:exercism/v3-docker-compose.git

Reviewer 2: Assumes `git cli` is installed. Should probably be noted up top.

Author: Added above :+1:

# Move into the new directory
cd v3-docker-compose

# Create your "stack" - the collection of parts of Exercism you

> # want to run locally. For now just copy the default file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# want to run locally. For now only copy the default file.
```

cp stack.default.yml stack.yml

# Start everything

> ./bin/start

Reviewer 2: Not cross-env; probably want to put a note in there for weird windows users (weird in the sense that they do have shell/shebang but use non-posix dirs). Maybe best to add "WSL2 recommended for windows, git bash works too". Source: on this machine I don't have WSL2, but I do have git bash.

Author: Could you give me a suggestion please (doesn't have to be a GH suggestion). I have no idea what needs to be said or how it should be worde.

Reviewer 2: `./bin/start` is a _bash_ script, which won't work by default on Windows (for example using cmd.exe or PowerShell). However, it will work in linux and linux-simulated environments. Windows now supports 
[WSL, Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10), which allows you to run and use Linux directly on windows. These scripts work using WSL. 

Alternatively, [Git for Windows](https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/) comes with a _compatibility layer_ for linux, including `git bash`, known as MINGW64. We don't officially support it, but most likely everything will work there as well.

```

### Updating everything

> The first time you use `./bin/start` we will download the latest versions of all the Exercism components for you to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first time you use `./bin/start`, it will download the latest versions of all the Exercism components for you to use.
```

> When you want to upgrade those components, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you want to upgrade those components, which you should do regularly, run:
```

or something like that. explain why people want/should update.

```bash
docker-compose pull
```

> If you face any issues getting started, we recommend running this step in case anything is cached locally from some previous installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you face any issues getting started, it's recommended to run this step in case anything is cached locally from a previous installation.
```

> If you face any issues getting started, we recommend running this step in case anything is cached locally from some previous installation.

Author: ```suggestion
If you face any issues getting started, we recommend running this step in case anything is cached locally from a previous installation.
```

### Logs

> Once the docker stack is running you can tail the logs using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the docker stack is running, you can tail the logs using:
```

perhaps link the `tail the logs` part to some doc explaining what this means"

> Once the docker stack is running you can tail the logs using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the docker stack is running you can read logs in real-time using:
```

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

> You can also tail just one component by specifying its name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can tail a single component by specifying its name.
```

Remove potential ambiguity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read the logs of a single component by specifying its name.
```

> For example, to tail the website logs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to tail the `website` logs:
```

```bash
docker-compose logs -f website
```

### Shelling into a container

> From time to time you may want to shell into a running container to run commands or check what is going on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From time to time you may want to start a shell on a running container to run commands or check what is going on.
```

I think that "shelling into" might be considered jargon. Consider something like: start a shell on a running container. I know that's _technically_ not the same thing, but is much clearer on what that is.

> To shell into a running container you can use the provided `bin/shell` command.

Reviewer 2: Same as above

For example, to shell into the running `website` container, you would run:

```bash

> bin/shell website

Reviewer 2: Windows, maybe we also add `.sh` to all shell commands?

Author: Should we? :)

Reviewer 2: 🤷

Author: I'll kick this into a problem for @ErikSchierboom to solve when he's back :)

```

### Stopping everything

To stop everything, run:
```
docker-compose down
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Instruction to stop/restart a single thing?

Author: @SleeplessByte Currently the restarting bit is below when discussing how to actually hack on things. Do you think it should move here instead?

Reviewer 2: Yeh, or at least "how to restart listed below". I expected it to be here.

## What is actually going on?

### Docker Compose

We are using [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

> Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.

Reviewer: Depending on who this is written for, you may need to explain what a container is first. "multi-container Docker applications" is meaningless without knowing what a container is.

Author: I've updated this slightly.

With Compose, you use a YAML file to configure your application’s services.
Then, with a single command, you create and start all the services from your configuration.

In the context of Exercism, each component (e.g. the website UI, an analyzer, the code that manages test runners) has it's own Dockerfile.

> These Dockerfiles are stored within the repositories (often named `dev.Dockerfile`) and are built and pushed to DockerHub via GitHub Actions.

Reviewer 3: Where will these docker files be?

```suggestion
These Dockerfiles are stored within each component's repository (often named `dev.Dockerfile`) and are built and pushed to DockerHub via GitHub Actions.
```

or are they stored centrally?

```suggestion
These Dockerfiles are stored within this repository (often named `dev.Dockerfile`) and are built and pushed to DockerHub via GitHub Actions.
```

> The code in this repository handles the creation of a `docker-compose.yml` and provides you with some simple wrapper scripts to run things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code in this repository handles the creation of a `docker-compose.yml` and provides you with some wrapper scripts to run things.
```

The `bin/start` script generates the `docker-compose.yml` from your `stack.yml` file, downloads the images from DockerHub and then starts them (via `docker-compose up`).

### stack.yml

The `stack.yml` file is a Exercism-specific configuration file that allows you to select which components you want to run locally, and any configuration you want to do.

> We then take that configuration and do the hard-work of turning that into a `docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer 2: We don't, the script does. "we do" feels like a manual step on our part.

"we're using" makes more sense because it's of the form "all of us are using"

Author: ```suggestion
The `bin/start` script then take that configuration and does the work of turning it into a `docker-compose.yml`.
```

> Every docker image you download takes up HDD space, and every docker container you run takes up memory, so the `stack.yml` file allows to you ensure that you only run the things that are necessary for whichever part of Exercism you are working on.

Reviewer 2: Maybe also mention that docker files can run multiple containers, so some of these might be hidden. And add the command to see how much space is taken. And explain the steps to change stack.yml to reduce the size when you don't need somehting (Say turn on and off an analyzer)

> Every docker image you download takes up HDD space, and every docker container you run takes up memory, so the `stack.yml` file allows to you ensure that you only run the things that are necessary for whichever part of Exercism you are working on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every docker image you download takes up storage space, and every docker container you run takes up memory, so the `stack.yml` file allows to you ensure that you only run the things that are necessary for whichever part of Exercism you are working on.
```

On that note, it might be a good idea to add a reminder to change the location of Docker's virtual disk so it doesn't fill up the main drive.

> Every docker image you download takes up HDD space, and every docker container you run takes up memory, so the `stack.yml` file allows to you ensure that you only run the things that are necessary for whichever part of Exercism you are working on.

Author: > On that note, it might be a good idea to add a reminder to change the location of Docker's virtual disk so it doesn't fill up the main drive.

@SaschaMann Can you expand pls?

Reviewer: Docker for Windows (not sure about other OS) has a setting for where it should store the virtual harddrives (? not sure about the details tbh). It defaults to C: which may not be what you want.

Author: I've added https://github.com/exercism/v3-docker-compose/issues/14

## Advanced Usage

### Working on certain components of the architecture

In order to working on a specific component of Exercism's architecture, you will need to have the relevant git repository downloaded locally.

Presuming you don't change the directory name from the repo name on GitHub, running `./bin/start` will mount the locally checked out repository in the Docker container.
This means any changes you make to the local filesystem are reflected within the Docker container.

> For example, if you wanted to work on the javascript-test-runner, you might do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you wanted to work on the `javascript-test-runner`, you might do the following:
```

```bash
# Start in your general Exercism directory (the first you made in the instructions above)
cd exercism

# Clone the relevant repository
git clone git@github.com:exercism/javascript-test-runner.git

# Move into the directory for *this* repo
cd v3-docker-compose

#
# Check the component is listed in the "enabled" section of your stack.yml.
#

# Run the bin/start command
./bin/start
```

Depending on the reload-behaviour of the component you are working, you may need to restart the component after changes.

> For example, the Website live-updates any changes made to the code (because Rails), but the Tooling Invoker does not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the Website live-updates any changes made to the code (because it is set-up and configured to do so), but the Tooling Invoker does not.
```

It's rails + webpacker + webpack + dev server + hmr or fast-refresh which are all separate technologies working together, but we probably don't want to say _that_.

> Restarting a component is as simple as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Restarting a component can be achieved by running a single command:
```

```bash
docker-compose restart tooling-invoker
```

> ### Manually bulding docker images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Manually building docker images
```

> In more unusual situations you may need to rebuild the docker image from source, rather than using a pre-provided image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In more unusual situations you may need to (re)build the docker image from source, rather than using a pre-provided image.
```

> This is especially true if you're planning on modifying the dependencies (local libraries, yarn, gems, etc), as opposed to just changing source code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is especially true if you're planning on modifying the dependencies (local libraries, node modules, gems, dependencies, etc), as opposed to just changing source code.
```

Dependencies are usually "baked" into the images at build time.

> To achieve this, edit the `stack.yml` to include a `build` section for the component you want to build from source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To rebuild an image from source, edit the `stack.yml` to include a `build` section for the component you want to build from source.
```

> For example, to have the tooling-invoker build from source rather than an image:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to have the tooling-invoker build from source rather than using an image:
```

```yaml
# stack.yml

configure:
  tooling-invoker:
    build: true
```

And then, to build it:

```bash
docker-compose build tooling-invoker
```

You can then run `./bin/start` as normal.

Each time you change the Dockerfile or dependencies it mounts (e.g. the Gemfile), you will need to rerun the build and start commands.

## Stuck?

Stuck running the Docker setup? Please open an issue in this repository, and we will try and help you fix things, and tweak things so other people don't face the same challenge.

> If you have an issue unrelated to this local Docker setup, please open an issue in the relevant repository (e.g. for the JavaScript Test Runner, use https://github.com/exercism/javascript-test-runner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an issue unrelated to this local Docker setup, please open an issue in the relevant repository (e.g. for the JavaScript Test Runner, use https://github.com/exercism/javascript-test-runner).
```

cd exercism

# Clone this repository onto your computer
git clone git@github.com:exercism/v3-docker-compose.git

# Move into the new directory
cd v3-docker-compose

# Create your "stack" - the collection of parts of Exercism you
# want to run locally. For now simply copy the default file.
cp stack.default.yml stack.yml

# Start everything
./bin/start
```

### Updating everything

The first time `./bin/start` is run, it will download the latest versions of all the Exercism components for you to use.
When you want to upgrade those components, which we advise doing regularly, run:

```bash
docker-compose pull
```

If you face any issues getting started, we recommend running this step in case anything is cached locally from a previous installation.

### Logs

Once the docker stack is running you can view the logs in real-time using:

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

You can watch the logs of a single component by specifying its name.
For example, to tail the `website` logs:

```bash
docker-compose logs -f website
```

### Shelling into a container

From time to time you may want to access a shell on a running container to run commands or check what is going on.

> To shell into a running container you can use the provided `bin/shell` command.

Author: ```suggestion
To access a shell into a running container you can use the provided `bin/shell` command.
```

> To access a shell into a running container you can use the provided `bin/shell` command.

Author: ```suggestion
To access a shell on a running container you can use the provided `bin/shell` command.
```

For example, to shell into the running `website` container, you would run:

```bash
bin/shell website
```

### Stopping everything

To stop everything, run:
```
docker-compose down
```

## What is actually going on?

### Docker Compose

We are using [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

> Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.

Author: ```suggestion
Compose is a tool for defining and running applications made up of multiple [Docker containers](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container).
```
